puna grasslands peru a bear desert
rocky land and one big nothing ah no
wait there's euraida eurada is a
flowering plant that looks so unique
you might actually think it's
photoshopped that's how different it is
from the rest of the desert
at first sight it looks like some rocks
covered in moss
but we're talking about a 3 000 year old
plant
found in the freezing puna grasslands of
the andes this plant grows in packs
and they're so dense you could stand on
top of a ureter shrub
and it'd take your weight without
problems
spotted lake canada they call it the
most magical spot in canada
in winter and spring this is just a
regular lake
that looks like any other but try going
there in the summer
when the water starts to evaporate it'll
feel
as if you've entered a different world a
polka dotted landscape
with blue green and yellow spots
over the summer there are over 300 pools
there
and they look magical over the centuries
people believed each of them had
different healing properties
oh and the explanation for the vibrant
colors is pure science
each of them has a high concentration of
different minerals
rio tinto spain for more than 5 000
years
the red river has been surrounded by
mines full of copper
silver gold and other minerals they give
the river
its unique reddish color people were
mining that area for centuries
until the whole industry started to fade
out the mines remained abandoned
until they were rediscovered in the 18th
century
the river is quite impressive but it's
also very dangerous for people
because of its high acidity the bacteria
in the water
create similar conditions that can be
found in some other places in our solar
system
for example scientists believe there's
something similar
on one of jupiter's moons europa an
acidic ocean
is hidden underneath the moon's surface
toyama bay if you're walking along the
shore of toyama bay
in japan you might be lucky to see
mystical neon blue light
it's coming from underneath the water
and lighting up the night sea
there aren't many places where you can
see a phenomenon like this
it's the firefly squid that's
responsible for the breathtaking show
the creature lives at a depth of more
than 650 feet
under the surface but in spring they
gather near the coast
sometimes waves even wash them ashore
the light these animals emit is actually
camouflage
which helps them to hide and protect
themselves
during the day the squids go back to the
deep
but they come back to party near the
shore at night
the light they produce isn't so bright
you could read a book in the dark
but it's still quite impressive
fly geyser nevada usa
imagine you're in a space rocket at one
point
you realize you've entered the
atmosphere of some unknown planet
you haven't even realized it's there the
planet's gravity starts to pull your
rocket down
soon it crash lands on the surface
luckily your spacecraft is sturdy enough
to stay intact
so you pull on your spacesuit and crawl
outside
right in front of you there's something
you've never seen before
incredible nature unbelievable colors
and a bizarre
mountain-like thing and suddenly it
spews out a column of boiling water
you shake your head ah this vivid
imagination of yours
you're actually in nevada looking at fly
ranch geyser
don't get disappointed it's still
marvelous
the geyser appeared in the 1960s when a
geothermal power company drilled a hole
this allowed the groundwater to escape
and the colors similar to those you can
see in yellowstone national park
all because of algae speaking of
yellowstone
that's another place that looks as if
it's been imported from another galaxy
on an area bigger than the states of
delaware and rhode island combined
there are more than 10 000 hydrothermal
features
500 geysers and incredible waterfalls
singy day bimaraha madagascar
now here's the place where you can
easily imagine meeting some ancient
animals you can almost see them hiding
somewhere among the pointy rocks
going up to 330 feet half of this
national park
is covered in forest and the other half
is rocky
formed by the erosion of water the place
is home to many animals
like chameleons iguanas frogs and lots
of different lemur species
vatna yokel glacier iceland
on your quest for the extraterrestrial
wonders of our planet
don't forget to drop by iceland there
you'll find the biggest glacier in all
of europe
in some places the ice can be more than
three thousand feet thick
bot nayokel has 30 outlet glaciers ready
to be explored
those are channels of ice that once flew
out of an ice cap
but remain stuck within the borders of
the valley
as for famous icelandic ice caves
they're formed when melt water runs
through a glacier
trying to get to the surface this
usually happens in the summer
when temperatures are higher and the
water flow is more turbulent
when the temperatures go down the water
freezes
that's how the caves are shaped
staffa scotland uk
staffa is an uninhabited island that
looks like a place from a different
planet
once you see it you can't shake off the
feeling it hides plenty of secrets
in reality though it's a calm spot
almost completely taken over by seabirds
and seals
even so no one can argue that the
incredible rock columns give this place
a unique and mysterious look it's always
encouraged local people to spread
legends about
the unusual cave the columns themselves
formed millions of years ago mostly
because of volcanic eruptions
glowworm caves in new zealand imagine
finding an entrance to a magical cave
you row your boat
eager to sneak a peek inside and get
rewarded with one of the most beautiful
views ever
you see a closed cave that looks as if
it's under a magnificent starry sky you
don't need to travel all the way around
the milky way to find something like
that
glowworm caves in new zealand are there
for you
the caves started forming millions of
years ago and now
they have an impressive collection of
stalagmites and stalactites
but what makes them really special is
glowworms
the caves are home to thousands and
thousands of luminescent larvae
worms need to attract insects and
potential partners
to do that they use their tails that
glow in the dark
there are lots of caves like this in the
area and people have been exploring them
for over 100 years
wuling young scenic area zhangjiajie
china this amazing place has
breathtaking sceneries
and more than 3 000 sandstone pillars
they look as if nature decided to make
its own version of skyscrapers
some of them are half as tall as the
empire state building
usually you can't even figure out where
the pillars start
all you see when you try to make out
what's there at the bottom
is endless mist two natural stone
bridges seem to be floating among the
pillars
lost in the clouds the eye of the sahara
that's a mystery that's remained hidden
for millennia
this geologic formation is difficult to
spot when you're standing on the ground
that's why it wasn't discovered
until people started to explore space
for some time scientists thought it was
an impact crater
created by some space object hitting
earth's surface
but after doing the research they found
out the origin of
the eye was entirely earth-based
these days geologists believe the eye's
formation started over 100 million years
ago
when plate tectonics were pulling apart
the supercontinent pangea
molten rock which was rising toward the
surface
created a massive dome made up of
different layers
later on volcanic activity and erosion
finished the eye's look
baiko lake russia the deepest
the oldest and one of the biggest
freshwater lakes in the world
is bound to have some secrets of its own
the lake is frozen from early january to
may
in the summer the water is so clear you
can see up to 130 feet down
that's because melted ice from the
siberian mountains
is incredibly pure there are also no
mineral salts in baikal
salar de uyuni bolivia
it's one of the most extreme places in
south america
the world's biggest salt flat stretches
for over four thousand square miles
it appeared when prehistoric lakes
evaporated
thousands of years ago a thick salty
crust
extends beyond the horizon at one point
you're not even sure where the land ends
and the sky begins the atacama desert
chile the world's driest desert is all
about rocky landscapes
salt lakes dunes and extreme
temperatures
in some parts of the desert there's been
no rain for almost 500 years
with no water or nutrients from the
ground there are no plants
that's one of the reasons why you might
feel as if you're on another planet
like mars but wait for the night to fall
an infinite sky full of stars looks like
a window to the universe
and its mysteries